>> Maximiliano Firtman: So,
what's a service worker?
It's a JavaScript file
running in its own thread,
that will act as a middleware offering
a local installed web server or
web proxy for your PWA,
including resources and API calls.
Let's try to simplify that.
Anyway, this is my definition
that is a bit extreme,
because I'm talking about the web server,
a web server that runs client side.
But actually, you can make a web
server running client-side.
And it's not the full definition,
because there are more steps,
such as, it will serve files
in the name of the server.
So it's responding in
the name of the server.
So, this is how it works.
You have your PWA and your PWA is here.
It's connecting to a server or
to cross-domain services.
Can be a CDN, Google Analytics,
anything, okay?
Amazon, Azure, AWS, whatever.
But the service worker is in the middle,
so it's a proxy.
Everything that goes to a network
will go through the service worker.
So, the service worker has
a lot of power because now it
can trap the request and
it can say no, you know what?
You are not going to the real server.
I will respond for the server locally,
because remember, the service worker is
in user devices, so it's in client-side,
it's in your phone, okay?
So the service worker that runs
client-side in the browser's engine.
HTTPS is required.
We know at this point it's
kind of a default, but
just to remind that,
with the exception of localhost, okay?
The localhost, we don't need the HTTPS.
And the service worker is installed,
actually, the term is typically
registered, is registered by a web page.
Any web page, so an HTML,
actually a JavaScript within an HTML,
will register a service worker.
We will do that in a sec.
It has its own thread and
lifecycle compared with your page, okay?
It will act as a network proxy or
a local web server in the name of the real
server once it's registered and active.
It has some abilities to
run in the background.
So you close the browser,
you close the web app, you close the PWA,
you close the browser, and the service
worker can still be executing code.
There is no need for user's permission.
Have you ever seen a message or
a permission that you're saying do
you want that as service worker?
No, but let me do that.
Let me do a test with you.
Open Chrome, any Chrome that you have.
If you have an Android,
it can also be your Android phone.
And try this,
chrome://serviceworker-internals.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: When you
get there, you will find a list,
probably a very long list,
very long list of service
workers that are actually
installed in your Chrome.
So these are web servers that
are installed in your Chrome instance.
Did it work?
Do you see?
So, at first, it's kind of scary, right?
Okay, so I've never accepted
the installation of these files, okay?
Now for example, this one,
everyone has a scope.
So it's discussions.apple.com,
which sounds like a good name for
a PWA course, okay?
Let's discuss about Apple.
So, discussions.apple.com.
Right now it says, well it has an ID
by internal self, but it says,
installation status activated,
or it's activated,
so it's using my CPU without my knowledge
because I'm not using that website.
But actually it says stopped,
so it's not running, okay?
But now, let me show you something,
I will open a new window here, so
we can see what happens like this.
And I will go to discussions.apple.com,
and
before pressing Return, let me do this.
I will say
/steve-jobs/was-right/pwa-rocks,
okay?
Something like that, of course,
I guess that it's a 404, right?
It should be a 404 server side,
I don't know.
But if I hit Return, now, you can
see there is a client here going on.
And actually it was so fast that we
haven't seen it, but I can a stop but
something appear here,
appear a client, okay?
Looking for
something in the Apple community.
So it was really fast in this case
because there is no fetch handler.
It just does not exist.
But you can see that it's connected, okay?
There is a client there going on.
Let me try another one.
Let me look for one that do have,
by the way, we can even see the script,
those scripts are downloaded
into your computer.
This is Google Drive.
Let me try to find one
that do have some sites,
I don't know what they are, actually.
So, firebase.google,
let's try this one, so Google Firebase.
So, again, look here,
Running Status: STOPPED.
Let's see if we can catch it.
firebase.google.com, boom,
starting running.
So this is staying there.
So now it's running, okay?
So serviceworker is running,
the script is running.
And there are two clients,
you say, why two clients?
I have only one.
My guess is probably an iframe,
because the iframe is another navigation,
another document.
So this page has an iframe,
I can see the URL right here.
So what happens if I well, if I change
the tab, it's still running, okay?
What happens if I close the tab?
What do you think?
Well, now it's a stop.
I say, hey, come on,
my page is still here.
Running.
Can you see?
Do you see that?
Stopped, running.
Say well, what happened?
Let me close the tab.
I closed the tab.
And it's still running.
You weren't probably expecting that.
You were not expecting that.
So why is that?
Because it has its own life
cycle separated from the client.
It takes a couple of seconds, typically
around 30 to 40 seconds in Chrome.
It depends on the browser, and
if it's no there are no clients,
no one is requesting
files from that domain.
Says, okay, I'm done, okay?
Actually, it's not the service
worker saying that,
it's a browser saying you are done, okay?
So the script is not responsible for
that, and now it's a stop.
And waking up again in the future if there
is another navigation to that domain.
If a message has been received, a push
notification message has been received.
If there is a background sync operation,
there are a lot of things that may happen
and may turn on that JavaScript
file in the background.
>> Audience: Are you going to talk
about push notifications at all?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
push notifications are on top
of these service workers.
Originally there is no direct relationship
between progressive web apps and
push notifications.
It's just one feature, okay?
So, we won't do that here.
I can show you a quick idea if you want.
But, the other course,
JavaScript in the Background,
covers web push notifications,
and we do a full sample on that.